## Ethics in the workplace

In the reading, "The code I’m still ashamed of", by Bill Sourour, he discusses his story and how you could be asked to do something unethical. It happened to him in 2000 and it is something he will never forget. He was writing code from a young age and was building websites and coded small components for business apps, so he had the passion for coding at a young age. He then got a full time coding job at 21 from a firm founded by a medical doctor and majority of its clients were large pharmaceutical companies with numerous requirements due to Canadian laws. One project he was assigned to do was a drug targeted at women and with graphics and general style, it was specifically target teenage girls. His project manager then decided to test the quiz before it went out to clients, and went up to his desk and said that it doesn't work because it leads to a clients drug, which it is what it was supposed to do, is what he said to her. He felt guilt because it was something designed to trick girls. He went to dinner and got an email with a link a news report online about a young girl who had taken the drug I’d built the website for. Commiting suicide, where one of the main side effects of that drug were severe depression and suicidal thoughts. Not to long after the dinner, he resigned and since then he tries to think twice about the effects of his code before he writes it.

## Ethics in Technology

In the reading, "The ethical dilemmas of self-driving cars", by Peter Nowak, he discusses self driving car and who they protect. He states that multiple studies, according to a 2015 report by McKinsey & Company, have estimated that self driving cars would dramatically reduce road accidents up to 90%. Ford Motor Co. chairman Bill Ford stated that nobody is talking about ethics and that if self driving technology is really going to serve society, then the issue of ehtics have to be resolved, and resolved soon. Considering the ethical dilemma, how would different circumstances that can happen when using a self driving car how would it react? According to a study done in 2016 suggests that the issue isn't solely about ethics, but about control.

Do you agree or disagree with these articles? What stuck out to you specifically from each article?

I agree with both of these articles because it discusses the power and influence that modern technology can have and how relient we are as clients and that is something that I found connected both of these articles. With the first article, them targeting women, but teenage girls was weird to me. For the second article, the questions that were asked about how a self driving would react to different situations stuck out to me because it was questions that I had when being first introduced to these cars.
