# [Class 6 Reading Notes](https://github.com/snur206/reading-notes/blob/main/102/class6notes.md)

**JavaScript**
JS is a lightweight, interpreted, or just in time compiled programming language with first class fuctions.
Well know for the scriptiong language for webpages.
Node.js, apache couchDB and Adobe Acrobat are some non-browser enviroments that use js.
JS is a prototype based, multi-paradigm, single-threaded, dynamic language,like functional programming style.
ECMAScript Langauge Specification (ECMA-262) and the ECMAScript Internationalization API specification (ECMA-402) are ***standards for js***
When a browser imlements a feature, js tries to document it.
**DO NOT CONFUSE JS WITH JAVA PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE**
Java and JS are trademarks/registered trademarks of oracle in the US and other countries.
Both have two programming languages that have different syntax, semantics and use.

**JS Basic Output**
Traditionally JS was used inside web browsers such as Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Opera, or Safari.
Recentely, JS code would be put on the server.
Most when known enviroment to run JS on the server is ***Node.js***  
IO.JS would be another. Started as a Node.js fork.
Three parts of what is refered to as JS:
-The language itself. This is fairly standard among the various environments, both in the various browsers and in the various server-side environments.
-he DOM API - how the language can interact with the various parts of a web page while in the browser. While in this respect the various browsers are getting closer to each other they still differ. Several libraries, most prominently JQuery, is trying to provide a unified API.
-The server API (or just API) provided by Node.js or one of the other server-side systems.

**Editor or IDE**
Any text editor can be used.

**Embed or include**
Can embed the js code directly inside the HTML file or can put a line in the HTML file that includes the external JS file (most cases this is recommended).
To make it work in a single file, add <script></script> (opening, closing tags)

**Input Output**
Different ways JS can display text for the user (output). The alert function is the simplest.

**Alert**
Shows a pop-up in the browser with text.
*Alert*
The alert() function is rarely used, but is a easy way to show js being used.
*Document.write*
JS code uses document.write function to change content of the page. Will embed the html snippet <h1>Hello World</> after the "first line" but before the "last line"
Function is used when you want to change what is shown.
*Console.log*  
Most web browsers provide "js console", an additional window that is normally not visible. The browser can print out warnings and erros generated by the execution of the js code
Developer can print info to this console using console.log() 
Open the console so you can see it
In Chrome or OSX use Command-Option-J to open the console.

*Prompt*
Shows a pop-up winder with text provided as the first parameter and a text book the user can fill in.
When pressing OK, the value in the text box will return by the prompt() function. The document.write method updates the HTML with the text.
Textbox will be filled  with content of the second parameter.
If the user presses cancel or ESC the prompt() function will return null.
*Confirm*
The confirm() function shows a pop-up window with provided text and two buttons.
Pressing OK, the confirm() function will return true.
Pressing cancel or ESC, the function will return false.
  
Four thigns Common to all computers: Input, Storage, Processing, Output.
  
